This lesson is preparatory. We need to create our own internal state for GameMode,
which will store the current state of the game.
We will also create a delegate that will notify all subscribed clients that this state has changed.
In CoreTypes, we create an enum class that will describe all the states of the game.
The very first state is waiting for the start, let's call it WaitingToStart.
The second state InProgress is when the game is running.
The third state is Pause and the fourth state is GameOver - when the game is over.
Next, we declare the delegate. Let's copy the macro.
The delegate will have one parameter. This parameter will be directly state.
Set a name to the FOnMatchStateSignature delegate
and a parameter of type ESTUMatchState. Let's create a delegate in game mode. Let's go to the header file.
In the public section, under the constructor. We call it OnMatchStateChanged.
Next, you need to create a variable that will store state.
The default value will be WaitingToStart Let's
also create a helper function. It will be internal, so we declare it in the private section.
We call it SetMatchState. It will have one parameter of type ESTUMatchState.
In this function, we will set the MatchState variable and call
the Broadcast function of our delegate. Let's create the body of this function.
First, let's add one check: if the current MatchState is equal to the State that we
want to set, then we exit the function, if not, then set the MatchState variable to a new value
and call the Broadcast function of our OnMatchStateChanged delegate. We pass the MatchState parameter to it.
In this lesson, the pause state has not yet been defined. We will consider it
in the next lesson, but now we can call this function in the game over, transfer the GameOver state there.
We can also call this function at the very beginning of the game, in the StartPlay function and set the InProgress value.
We will mainly use this state to change interfaces. Go to the game HUD class.
Let's connect STUCoreTypes. At BeginPlay, we will now subscribe to the notification of the change in the state of the game.
For this we need a callback function. We call it OnMatchStateChanged.
According to the signature of our delegate, it should have one parameter.
We create the body of the function.
Let's include the header file of our game mode. In this lesson, we will simply display a message
that the state of the game has changed. For this we need our own logging category.
Called it LogSTUGameHUD.
In the BeginPlay function, subscribe to the delegate. First, we check the world pointer.
Next, we create a local variable GameMode. We immediately cast to our concrete game mode class.
And we get game mode through UWorld.
If the GameMode pointer is not nullptr,
then we subscribe to our delegate.
And add the OnMatchStateChanged function as a callback.
In this function, we will display a message about the changed state of the game.
The UENUM macro adds various meta information to the enum class, thanks to this, using special
functions, we can convert the enum value to a string literal. The function is in the UEnum class.
The function is static, called GetValueAsString and it takes an enum variable as a parameter.
The return value is of type FString, so we need to add an asterisk operator *
Compile the project, check if everything works for us.
Let's change the game data for a quick test.
Let's put the number of rounds - 2 and the number of seconds in one round - 3. Compile. We save.
We will only display the message from our log LogSTUGameHUD. We start the game.
The console displays a message that the game state is InProgress.
And at the end of the second round, a message was displayed that the state was Game Over.